docs/source/index.rst, before:

Ceph Installer
==============
An HTTP API (previously known as the "mariner installer") to provision and
control the deployment process of Ceph clusters.


Restful HTTP API
----------------
The service allows you to install and configure ceph via a RestFul API that
accepts and returns JSON responses along with meaningful error codes and
messages.

Most if not all requests should use canonicalized URLs (they end with
a trailing slash).

It follows these concepts:

* ``GET`` operations are read-only operations. They will not trigger any
  behavior.

* ``POST`` requests will create resources or trigger a specific behavior, like
  installing operations on a given host.

Configure operations
--------------------
The configuration step for any node type (rgw, mon, osd, etc...) is *required* to
be per node. It is up to the caller to handle domain logic.

The ceph-installer API does not implement *any* logic to determine the path to
cluster creation. It instead provides a granular set of endpoints to allow the
caller for the flexibility it needs.

Install operations
------------------
The install requests to the API *are allowed to pass a list of multiple hosts*.

This process is not sequential: all hosts are operated against at
once and if a single host fails to install the entire task will report as
a failure. This is expected Ansible behavior and this API adheres to that.

Callers should expect failures to halt as soon as a failure (or error) is met.

Requirements and dependencies
-----------------------------
This service is intended to be installed by a system package manager (like yum
or apt) and ideally all requirements and dependencies should be taken care of.
This is the list of the current services and system dependencies needed:

System requirements:

* RabbitMQ
* Ansible

Application requirements:

* pecan
* celery
* sqlalchemy
* gunicorn
* notario
* pecan-notario

Ceph Versions
=============

The default for the ``/api/*/install`` endpoints is to install the latest upstream
stable version of ceph. If you'd like to install the latest Red Hat Ceph Storage ensure
that the node being provisioned is correctly entitled and that the ``redhat_storage`` option
is set to ``True`` in the json body you send to the install endpoint.


Endpoints
=========
The parent endpoint for any API interaction is ``/api/``. The service provides
a setup script as well that can be used to ensure a remote node can comply with
certain requirements like: a deployment user, ssh keys, and sudo permissions.

The top level endpoints are:

* :ref:`setup`
* :ref:`api`


.. _setup:

``setup``
=========

.. http:get:: /setup/

  Generates a BASH script to be downloaded as ``setup.sh``. This
  script should be executed with super user privileges on the remote node as it
  will perform the following actions:

  * create an ``ceph-installer`` user
  * ensure that the ``ceph-installer`` user can use sudo without a password prompt
  * remove the ``requiretty`` from ``/etc/sudoers.d/ceph-installer``, so that SSH
    connections allow non-interactive sessions from using ``sudo``
  * retrieve the SSH key that will be used for provisioning (see
    :http:get:`/setup/key/`)
  * append the provisioning key onto ``$HOME/ceph-installer/.ssh/authorized_keys``

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=setup.sh
      Content-Type: application/octet-stream; charset=UTF-8

   :statuscode 200: no error
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


.. _provisioning_key:

.. http:get:: /setup/key/

  This endpoint will serve the public SSH key *from the user that is running the
  service* assuming the location of: ``$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub``. If this file does
  not exist the service will proceed to create one *while processing the
  request*.

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=id_rsa.pub
      Content-Type: application/octet-stream; charset=UTF-8

   :statuscode 200: no error
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


.. _api:

``api``
=======

.. http:get:: /api/

    Will return the current status of the service.

  **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {}


   :statuscode 200: All components of the system are operational
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


``tasks``
---------

A task is created when an action on a remote node is triggered (for example to
install packages on a monitor node).  They can be used to track the progress of
the operation, like installing or configuring a remote node.

Tasks contain metadata for these calls. This metadata includes items like: start
time, end time, success, stderr, stdout

It provides two ways to consume the status of a given task:

* polling
* callback

Callback System
---------------
Each API endpoint will allow an optional "callback" key with a URL value. That
URL will be triggered when a task has finished (this includes error, success,
or failure states).

The request for the callback URL will be an HTTP POST with the full JSON
metadata of the task.

.. warning::
    The callback system has not been implemented yet.

Polling
-------
As soon as a call is performed and conditions are met for provisioning on
a remote node a "task" is created. This means the information is not atomic, it
is available as soon as the call proceeds to a remote node interaction and
information gets updated as the task completes.

When a task is not done it will have a ``null`` value for the ``ended`` key, will
default to ``"succeeded": "false"`` and it will have a ``completed`` key that will
be ``true`` when the task has finished.  These tasks have an unique identifier.
The endpoints *will always return a 200 when they are available*.

Polling is not subject to handle state with HTTP status codes (e.g. 304)


.. http:get:: /api/tasks/

  Returns a list of all available tasks.

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      [
          {"command": "command arguments flags sample",
            "ended": "2016-01-27T15:03:23.438172",
            "endpoint": "/api/rgw/configure",
            "id": "2207bde6-4346-4a83-984a-40a5c00056c1",
            "started": "2016-01-27T15:03:22.638173",
            "stderr": "command stderr",
            "stdout": "command stdout",
            "succeeded": true,
          }
      ]

   :statuscode 200: Available tasks
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


.. http:get:: /api/tasks/(id)/

  Distinct task metadata

  **Response**:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Content-Type: application/json

     {
       "command": "command arguments flags sample",
       "ended": "2016-01-27T15:03:23.438172",
       "endpoint": "/api/rgw/configure",
       "id": "2207bde6-4346-4a83-984a-40a5c00056c1",
       "started": "2016-01-27T15:03:22.638173",
       "stderr": "command stderr",
       "stdout": "command stdout"
     }

  :statuscode 200: Task metadata exists
  :statuscode 404: Task does not exist
  :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


``mon``
=======

.. http:post:: /api/mon/install/

   Start the installation process for monitor(s)

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Content-Type: application/json

     {
         "endpoint": "/api/mon/install/",
         "succeeded": false,
         "stdout": null,
         "started": null,
         "exit_code": null,
         "ended": null,
         "command": null,
         "stderr": null,
         "identifier": "47f60562-a96b-4ac6-be07-71726b595793"
     }

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json


      {
          "hosts": ["mon1.example.com", "mon2.example.com", "mon3.example.com"],
          "redhat_storage": false,
      }

   :<json array hosts: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.


.. http:post:: /api/mon/configure/

   Configure monitor(s)

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
          "host": "mon1.example.com",
          "monitor_interface": "eth0",
          "fsid": "deedcb4c-a67a-4997-93a6-92149ad2622a",
          "monitor_secret": "AQA7P8dWAAAAABAAH/tbiZQn/40Z8pr959UmEA==",
          "cluster_network": "0.0.0.0/24",
          "public_network": "0.0.0.0/24",
          "monitors": [{"host": "mon0.host", "interface": "eth1"}],
          "redhat_storage": false,
      }


   :<json string fsid: (required) The ``fsid`` for the cluster
   :<json string host: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json string monitor_interface: (required) The interface name (e.g. "eth0")
   :<json string monitor_secret: (required) A key to use when creating the monitor keyrings.
   :<json string public_network: (required) The public network for the cluster.
   :<json string cluster_network: (optional) If not provided, this will default to ``public_network``.
   :<json array monitors: (optional) This is only optional when no other monitors currently exist
                          in the cluster. If you're configuring a mon for an existing cluster, provide
                          a list of objects representing the monitor host and its interface.
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.


``osd``
=======

.. http:post:: /api/osd/install/

   Start the installation process for OSD(s)

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Content-Type: application/json

     {
         "endpoint": "/api/osd/install/",
         "succeeded": false,
         "stdout": null,
         "started": null,
         "exit_code": null,
         "ended": null,
         "command": null,
         "stderr": null,
         "identifier": "47f60562-a96b-4ac6-be07-71726b595793"
     }

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
          "hosts": ["osd1.example.com", "osd2.example.com"],
          "redhat_storage": false,
      }

   :<json array hosts: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.

.. http:post:: /api/osd/configure/

   The only osd provisioning scenario that this API supports is where a raw
   device is used as a journal. No journal collocation or OSD directory is
   allowed.

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
          "devices": ["/dev/sdb"],
          "fsid": "deedcb4c-a67a-4997-93a6-92149ad2622a",
          "host": "osd1.example.com",
          "journal_size": 0,
          "public_network": "0.0.0.0/0",
          "cluster_network": "0.0.0.0/0",
          "redhat_storage": false,
          "monitors": [{"host": "mon0.host", "interface": "eth1"}],
      }

   :<json array devices: (required) The devices to use for OSDs
   :<json string fsid: (required) The ``fsid`` for the cluster
   :<json string host: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json int journal_size: (required) The size to use for the journal
   :<json string public_network: (required) The public network for the cluster
   :<json string cluster_network: (optional) If not provided, this will default to ``public_network``.
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.
   :<json array monitors: (required) The monitors for the cluster you want to add this OSD to.
                          Provide a list of objects representing the monitor host and its interface.


.. _server_errors:

Known Server Errors
-------------------
These are possible server errors and failures that are handled by the
application itself. Once handled the server will reply with a JSON body and
a single ``message`` key.

No Celery worker running:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "No running Celery worker was found"}

Missing Ansible:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "Could not find ansible in system paths"}

RabbitMQ connection errors:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "Error connecting to RabbitMQ"}

RabbitMQ is not running:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "RabbitMQ is not running or not reachable"}

Database connectivity:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "Could not connect or retrieve information from the database"}

Commit message:

create the status doc api endpoint
Signed-off-by: Alfredo Deza <adeza@redhat.com>

docs/source/index.rst, after:

Ceph Installer
==============
An HTTP API (previously known as the "mariner installer") to provision and
control the deployment process of Ceph clusters.


Restful HTTP API
----------------
The service allows you to install and configure ceph via a RestFul API that
accepts and returns JSON responses along with meaningful error codes and
messages.

Most if not all requests should use canonicalized URLs (they end with
a trailing slash).

It follows these concepts:

* ``GET`` operations are read-only operations. They will not trigger any
  behavior.

* ``POST`` requests will create resources or trigger a specific behavior, like
  installing operations on a given host.

Configure operations
--------------------
The configuration step for any node type (rgw, mon, osd, etc...) is *required* to
be per node. It is up to the caller to handle domain logic.

The ceph-installer API does not implement *any* logic to determine the path to
cluster creation. It instead provides a granular set of endpoints to allow the
caller for the flexibility it needs.

Install operations
------------------
The install requests to the API *are allowed to pass a list of multiple hosts*.

This process is not sequential: all hosts are operated against at
once and if a single host fails to install the entire task will report as
a failure. This is expected Ansible behavior and this API adheres to that.

Callers should expect failures to halt as soon as a failure (or error) is met.

Requirements and dependencies
-----------------------------
This service is intended to be installed by a system package manager (like yum
or apt) and ideally all requirements and dependencies should be taken care of.
This is the list of the current services and system dependencies needed:

System requirements:

* RabbitMQ
* Ansible

Application requirements:

* pecan
* celery
* sqlalchemy
* gunicorn
* notario
* pecan-notario

Ceph Versions
=============

The default for the ``/api/*/install`` endpoints is to install the latest upstream
stable version of ceph. If you'd like to install the latest Red Hat Ceph Storage ensure
that the node being provisioned is correctly entitled and that the ``redhat_storage`` option
is set to ``True`` in the json body you send to the install endpoint.


Endpoints
=========
The parent endpoint for any API interaction is ``/api/``. The service provides
a setup script as well that can be used to ensure a remote node can comply with
certain requirements like: a deployment user, ssh keys, and sudo permissions.

The top level endpoints are:

* :ref:`setup`
* :ref:`api`


.. _setup:

``setup``
=========

.. http:get:: /setup/

  Generates a BASH script to be downloaded as ``setup.sh``. This
  script should be executed with super user privileges on the remote node as it
  will perform the following actions:

  * create an ``ceph-installer`` user
  * ensure that the ``ceph-installer`` user can use sudo without a password prompt
  * remove the ``requiretty`` from ``/etc/sudoers.d/ceph-installer``, so that SSH
    connections allow non-interactive sessions from using ``sudo``
  * retrieve the SSH key that will be used for provisioning (see
    :http:get:`/setup/key/`)
  * append the provisioning key onto ``$HOME/ceph-installer/.ssh/authorized_keys``

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=setup.sh
      Content-Type: application/octet-stream; charset=UTF-8

   :statuscode 200: no error
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


.. _provisioning_key:

.. http:get:: /setup/key/

  This endpoint will serve the public SSH key *from the user that is running the
  service* assuming the location of: ``$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub``. If this file does
  not exist the service will proceed to create one *while processing the
  request*.

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Disposition: attachment; filename=id_rsa.pub
      Content-Type: application/octet-stream; charset=UTF-8

   :statuscode 200: no error
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


.. _api:

``api``
=======

.. http:get:: /api/

    Will return the current status of the service.

  **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {}


   :statuscode 200: All components of the system are operational
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


``tasks``
---------

A task is created when an action on a remote node is triggered (for example to
install packages on a monitor node).  They can be used to track the progress of
the operation, like installing or configuring a remote node.

Tasks contain metadata for these calls. This metadata includes items like: start
time, end time, success, stderr, stdout

It provides two ways to consume the status of a given task:

* polling
* callback

Callback System
---------------
Each API endpoint will allow an optional "callback" key with a URL value. That
URL will be triggered when a task has finished (this includes error, success,
or failure states).

The request for the callback URL will be an HTTP POST with the full JSON
metadata of the task.

.. warning::
    The callback system has not been implemented yet.

Polling
-------
As soon as a call is performed and conditions are met for provisioning on
a remote node a "task" is created. This means the information is not atomic, it
is available as soon as the call proceeds to a remote node interaction and
information gets updated as the task completes.

When a task is not done it will have a ``null`` value for the ``ended`` key, will
default to ``"succeeded": "false"`` and it will have a ``completed`` key that will
be ``true`` when the task has finished.  These tasks have an unique identifier.
The endpoints *will always return a 200 when they are available*.

Polling is not subject to handle state with HTTP status codes (e.g. 304)


.. http:get:: /api/tasks/

  Returns a list of all available tasks.

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      [
          {"command": "command arguments flags sample",
            "ended": "2016-01-27T15:03:23.438172",
            "endpoint": "/api/rgw/configure",
            "id": "2207bde6-4346-4a83-984a-40a5c00056c1",
            "started": "2016-01-27T15:03:22.638173",
            "stderr": "command stderr",
            "stdout": "command stdout",
            "succeeded": true,
          }
      ]

   :statuscode 200: Available tasks
   :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


.. http:get:: /api/tasks/(id)/

  Distinct task metadata

  **Response**:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Content-Type: application/json

     {
       "command": "command arguments flags sample",
       "ended": "2016-01-27T15:03:23.438172",
       "endpoint": "/api/rgw/configure",
       "id": "2207bde6-4346-4a83-984a-40a5c00056c1",
       "started": "2016-01-27T15:03:22.638173",
       "stderr": "command stderr",
       "stdout": "command stdout"
     }

  :statuscode 200: Task metadata exists
  :statuscode 404: Task does not exist
  :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)


``mon``
=======

.. http:post:: /api/mon/install/

   Start the installation process for monitor(s)

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Content-Type: application/json

     {
         "endpoint": "/api/mon/install/",
         "succeeded": false,
         "stdout": null,
         "started": null,
         "exit_code": null,
         "ended": null,
         "command": null,
         "stderr": null,
         "identifier": "47f60562-a96b-4ac6-be07-71726b595793"
     }

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json


      {
          "hosts": ["mon1.example.com", "mon2.example.com", "mon3.example.com"],
          "redhat_storage": false,
      }

   :<json array hosts: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.


.. http:post:: /api/mon/configure/

   Configure monitor(s)

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
          "host": "mon1.example.com",
          "monitor_interface": "eth0",
          "fsid": "deedcb4c-a67a-4997-93a6-92149ad2622a",
          "monitor_secret": "AQA7P8dWAAAAABAAH/tbiZQn/40Z8pr959UmEA==",
          "cluster_network": "0.0.0.0/24",
          "public_network": "0.0.0.0/24",
          "monitors": [{"host": "mon0.host", "interface": "eth1"}],
          "redhat_storage": false,
      }


   :<json string fsid: (required) The ``fsid`` for the cluster
   :<json string host: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json string monitor_interface: (required) The interface name (e.g. "eth0")
   :<json string monitor_secret: (required) A key to use when creating the monitor keyrings.
   :<json string public_network: (required) The public network for the cluster.
   :<json string cluster_network: (optional) If not provided, this will default to ``public_network``.
   :<json array monitors: (optional) This is only optional when no other monitors currently exist
                          in the cluster. If you're configuring a mon for an existing cluster, provide
                          a list of objects representing the monitor host and its interface.
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.


``osd``
=======

.. http:post:: /api/osd/install/

   Start the installation process for OSD(s)

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 200 OK
     Content-Type: application/json

     {
         "endpoint": "/api/osd/install/",
         "succeeded": false,
         "stdout": null,
         "started": null,
         "exit_code": null,
         "ended": null,
         "command": null,
         "stderr": null,
         "identifier": "47f60562-a96b-4ac6-be07-71726b595793"
     }

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
          "hosts": ["osd1.example.com", "osd2.example.com"],
          "redhat_storage": false,
      }

   :<json array hosts: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.

.. http:post:: /api/osd/configure/

   The only osd provisioning scenario that this API supports is where a raw
   device is used as a journal. No journal collocation or OSD directory is
   allowed.

   **Request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
          "devices": ["/dev/sdb"],
          "fsid": "deedcb4c-a67a-4997-93a6-92149ad2622a",
          "host": "osd1.example.com",
          "journal_size": 0,
          "public_network": "0.0.0.0/0",
          "cluster_network": "0.0.0.0/0",
          "redhat_storage": false,
          "monitors": [{"host": "mon0.host", "interface": "eth1"}],
      }

   :<json array devices: (required) The devices to use for OSDs
   :<json string fsid: (required) The ``fsid`` for the cluster
   :<json string host: (required) The hostname to configure
   :<json int journal_size: (required) The size to use for the journal
   :<json string public_network: (required) The public network for the cluster
   :<json string cluster_network: (optional) If not provided, this will default to ``public_network``.
   :<json boolean redhat_storage: (optional) Use the downstream version of
                                  RedHat Storage.
   :<json array monitors: (required) The monitors for the cluster you want to add this OSD to.
                          Provide a list of objects representing the monitor host and its interface.


``status``
==========

.. http:get:: /api/status/

   Get the system status for the service. Performs checks against different
   required systems and return an HTTP 500 error status code with a message.

   **Response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "RabbitMQ is not running or not reachable"}

  :statuscode 500: Server Error (see :ref:`server_errors`)

.. _server_errors:

Known Server Errors
-------------------
These are possible server errors and failures that are handled by the
application itself. Once handled the server will reply with a JSON body and
a single ``message`` key.

No Celery worker running:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "No running Celery worker was found"}

Missing Ansible:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "Could not find ansible in system paths"}

RabbitMQ connection errors:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "Error connecting to RabbitMQ"}

RabbitMQ is not running:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "RabbitMQ is not running or not reachable"}

Database connectivity:

  .. sourcecode:: http

     HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
     Content-Type: application/json

     {"message": "Could not connect or retrieve information from the database"}
